# Table of Contents
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Encoding](#encoding)
  - [Sets of Flags](#sets-of-flags)
- [Microcontoller](#microcontoller)
    - [Raspberry](#raspberry)
    - [Arduino](#arduino)
    - [Microcontroller vs Microprocessor (Desktop)](#microcontroller-vs-microprocessor-desktop)
- [Arduino](#arduino-1)
  - [Simulator](#simulator)

# Encoding
Encoding between rules and number: for example weekdays.

Number  | Weekday | 
------- | ------- | 
   0    | Sunday  |

There's not a standard version: can start with sunday as well as monday. Unicode is the new version of ASCII code. The difference stays in the *length of the code*.
- ASCII → 7 bit: 128 . In ASCII code the code `00000000` is *not zero*. It's a symbol which means *end of string*.

## Sets of Flags
The flags are controls used for example to resize a window or make it movable.

`|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|` each bit usually represents the state of a flag. To change the behavior of the window we must change the bits (flags). We need a *bitwise or operation*: a bit must corrispond to a feature, so that when I change a flag it doesn't impact the others.

Once you have in idea, in IoT is better to fast create a prototype of that. Someone else can have the same idea, so it's important to *be fast*. Arduino is very fast so it replies well to this need. Delay keyword is forbidden in IoT.

# Microcontoller
There are different solutions: laptop, arduino, raspberry. With an Elettronic/Elettrical circuit I can provide to switch off a light. In this way, I can't transmit informations over internet. It's better something that allows me to store the data. To switch off more lights togheter in a building I need something more: a **microcontroller**. This is the *cheapest way to solve the problem*. Arduino is the idea (shape) of the board, but the micro controller in it is the black band on it. All the boards in the pc or raspberry share a similar structure. In a board, we usually need:
- CPU
- MEMORY
  - Volatile (Cache, RAM: a memory *very* fast)
  - Non Volatile
- I/O
- Other Circuits, for example:
  - Clock Generator
  - Converter (Analog to Digital or viceversa)
  - Timers

In our own desktop PC we have one or more chip for the CPU, one or more for the memory, for the I/O and so on. The architecture of a PC allows me to have a powerful CPU, a huge memory and everything more that I really need sometimes. If in a PC we can have a sets of chip for every component, these must have lots of pins to transmit the informations to the others components. A raspberry has *only one chip*: microcontrollers should cost very few money, they are a *cheap solution*, they are one core systems (one thread). Limited CPU means a 8 bit CPU, no more. The memory is limited in size, the clock is slow because the CPU works at a slow frequence. A single chip collects all these different kind of components. With a larger board a vent is needed to prevent heating problems. Limited computational power implies writing code with knowledge of it.

### Raspberry
It can host a controller for the network, so it can work with data over the network. The program we write runs on the operating system installed on the raspberry. 

### Arduino
It has not an operating system, so we must keep it in mind when coding using it.

### Microcontroller vs Microprocessor (Desktop)
These are two different thing. A microcontroller is very less powerful. A microcontroller has a clock frequency og 1Ghz, so it usually do one action every second. It's useful for do a limited number of instructions, but it does them very fast. A microcontroller needs to work with a *very low power*, for this matter it hasn't an high frequency of the clock. 

Microcontrollers have not a FPU (Floating Point Unit). More microcontrollers are needed for the realization of a project. With a system on a chip (like Raspberry) this is not needed.

# Arduino
- (1) USB connection
  - provide power of the microcontroller
  - provide the memory
  - provide a connection with the host (PC)
- (2) Power connection
- (6) Analog Inputs
- (7/8) 14 Digital Pins

The microcontroller is Arduino is composed by 40 pins. Some connected to the I/O pins, some to the internal ones. Most of them are single clock cyle execution. Pin number 13 is connected to a led.

## Simulator
https://www.tinkercard.com/dashboard for simulations of simple code: C++ or C. Registration is needed.